---
title: "An amphiphilic copolymer-based chemocapacitor array for selective and sensitive sensing of volatile organic compounds"
collection: talks
type: "Poster"
permalink: /talks/nika23092019
venue: "45<sup>th</sup> International Conference on Micro & Nano Engineering"
date: 23/09/2019
location: "Rhodes, Greece"
---
<p style="text-align: justify;">
    This is an example of text that will be justified. Justified text will spread out so that both the left and right sides of the text block are aligned with the left and right edges of the container.
</p>
**Abstract**

Amphiphilic block copolymers are materials with significant industrial use in a variety of applications,
such as in gene delivery, antifouling materials, membranes for gas separation and sensors [1]. In these
macromolecular systems, the chemical properties and the volume fraction of each block are important
parameters for achieving the desired properties as well as controlling and tuning the properties of the final
material. For example, in sensors, polymeric materials with high selectivity, stability and reversibility are
needed. In the present work we investigate the use of amphiphilic block copolymers as sensing materials in
chemocapacitors for gas sensing applications.
The detection mechanism in chemocapacitors is based on the change of the dielectric permittivity of
the sensing layer, usually a polymer, due to the sorption of vapor analytes [2, 3]. Although a variety of
polymers has been used as sensing layers, amphiphilic block copolymers have not been studied in detail.
The advantage of amphiphilic block copolymers is the presence of hydrophilic functional groups on the
surface and hydrophobic functional groups in the bulk, allowing them to detect both polar and non-polar
volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Furthermore, the discrimination of small molecule alcohols is a
research of great interest. Often, counterfeit alcoholic beverages contain high methanol levels and cause
health issues [4,5].
In this work the development and evaluation of a chemocapacitor array for the detection of VOCs
(methanol, ethanol, ethyl acetate and toluene), humidity and binary mixtures of them is presented. The
selected diblock copolymers have different solubility parameter and volume fraction of each block
affecting the sensitivity and the selectivity of the sensor array.
The sensing performance of the sensor array was evaluated in humidity, ethyl acetate, toluene, methanol
and ethanol vapours as well as binary mixtures of the above in a wide concentration range. The capacitance
measurements were performed at constant temperature (21&deg;C). Principal component analysis (PCA) was used as the pattern
recognition technique.
In conclusion, novel amphiphilic block copolymers have been proved as very efficient polymeric
layers for chemocapacitors allowing discrimination of polar (including small alcohols) and non-polar
analytes. The presented results pave the way for further advancements in VOCs detection technology based
on copolymers tailored for discrimination of specific analytes.

[1] M.A Kryuchkov, C. Detrembleur, R. Jérôme, R.E. Prud’homme, C.G. Bazuin, Macromolecules 44
(2011) 5209-5217.
[2] A. Botsialas, P. Oikonomou, D. Goustouridis, T. Ganetsos, I. Raptis, M. Sanopoulou, Sensors and
Actuators B: Chemical 177 (2013) 776-784.
[3] M. Kitsara, D. Goustouridis, S. Chatzandroulis, M. Chatzichristidi, I. Raptis, Th. Ganetsos, R. Igreja,
C. J. Dias, Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical 127 (2007) 186-192.
[4] P. Oikonomou, I. Raptis, M. Sanopoulou, Sensors 14 (2014) 16258-16273.
[5] L. Chen, S.Y. Yin, M. Pan, K. Wu, H.P. Wang, Y.N. Fan. C.Y. Su, Journal of Materials Chemistry C,
4 (2016) 6962-6966.
<!-- [More information here](http://example2.com) -->
