---
title: "Block copolymers for emerging nanotechnologies"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/nika24092019
venue: "45<sup>th</sup> International Conference on Micro & Nano Engineering"
date: 24-09-2019
location: "Rhodes, Greece"
---

<style>
  .justify {
    text-align: justify;
  }
</style>

**Abstract**

<p class="justify">
  One of the main challenges for the further development of micro- and nano-electronics and micro-systems industries is the continuous miniaturization of the critical device dimension sizes. Photolithography has been at the focal point of this development. Nevertheless, as feature sizes have shrunk to nanometer length scale and new applications are emerging, especially in the area of microsystems, alternative to photolithography methods have been investigated. In this context, one of the most attractive technologies for micro- and nano-fabrication has been based on the self-assembly of block copolymers. Through microphase separation, block copolymers can be assembled into well-defined nanodomains, such as spherical, cylindrical, lamellar e.t.c. [1, 2].
In the present work, a novel diblock copolymer system allowing top-down (through photolithography) and bottom-up (through self-assembly) lithography for emerging nanotechnologies is presented.
Moreover, microphase separation of the block copolymer films on nanometer length scale, under controlled solvent annealing conditions, produced well-defined morphologies which were depended on the volume fraction of the two blocks.
  To conclude, the proposed copolymers are very promising for device nanofabrication using top-down and bottom-up patterning technologies.
  
</p>

References
[1] M.A. Morris, Microelec. Eng. 132 (2015) 207-217.

[2] I. W. Hamley, Progress in Polymer Science 34 (2009) 1161-1210.
<!-- [More information here](http://exampleurl.com) -->

